---
title: "Opportunities"
---
Even before considering how they are going to transport themselves somewhere, students need to have a reason to leave. There are many opportunities to leave Olin’s campus at Babson and Wellesley, the two neighboring colleges that require less effort, time, and money than those in other locations. Transportation to either college is free, either by walking or taking the shuttle. Perhaps the best way to begin is to start small, with food: Olin students have unlimited meal swipes at the Trim dining hall on Babson's campus (within easy walking distance) and the Lulu Campus Center at Wellesley (a free shuttle ride away). A change of scenery for a meal once or twice a week can be beneficial, and a stepping stone towards meeting people and getting involved with other activities on the two campuses. On a similar note, the Babson/Olin/Wellesley Collaboration holds various informal social gatherings and events between the two campuses, and has an available calendar. Events and trips are often posted on mailing lists like Carpediem, as well as the bulletin boards in the dining hall and library. For students who are looking for occasions more relevant to their interests or with other Olin students, various clubs at Olin like the Olin Dance Project, Cybersecurity, and the Outing Club make frequent trips off campus. Outside of Olin’s resources, there are many websites that connect groups of people around common interests, two popular ones being Meetup and Couchsurfing. As with any habit, getting started with leaving campus is the hardest part. With time it is easier to settle into a routine, and more reasons to leave campus will reveal themselves. 
