---
title: "Outcomes"
---
The isolation of the Bubble is not unique to Olin. Any small community is prone to a lack of diverse thoughts, whether it’s a physical group such as a small town or college, or a virtual one like a messaging board or subreddit. In his book The Filter Bubble, Eli Parsier discusses how the tailored flows of information from online sources like Google, Facebook, and Twitter provide a similar lack of diversity in the interest of providing content that is interesting and pleasurable to the reader, at the cost of challenging their opinions and forcing them to broaden their perspectives (Parsier). Instead of naturally interacting with article that oppose their viewpoints, users are instead shown content that supports their worldview. In the same way, Olin’s small size and focus as an engineering college prevents its students from experiencing people with truly opposing worldviews. While students will certainly find other students with whom they disagree, they are fundamentally similar in that they both attend Olin. An Olin student will never find another student that is not majoring in engineering. All colleges experience this problem on some level or another (see the high concentrations of liberal students across America), but smaller colleges experience in on a far stronger scale. The same qualities of Olin that make it a unique learning experience and close-knit community prevent it from achieving a certain level of intellectual diversity, because ultimately, there are only 450 people to interact with.  
In these small communities, the lack of diverse opinions leads to the formation of viewpoints that may be insensitive or incorrect but are unchallenged. An excellent example is the recent presidential election. In the virtual world, Google and Facebook have announced that they will remove websites that produce fake news from their advertising services (Wingfield). These websites provided false information, such as an article that claimed Trump won the popular vote, which was a top result on election night. Articles like this and others propagated false information about candidates, appealing to members of one political party or the other but ultimately hurting everyone by preventing voters from reaching a mutual truth. Similarly, immediately after election day an event occurred at Olin that exposed students’ segregated opinions. An anonymous poster on the Therapy mailing list announced that they had voted for Trump, and were unwilling to talk about it in person for fear of backlash from friends and fellow students. Some people replied with messages of support, but others called for the original poster to reveal themselves and face the repercussions. Rather than acknowledge and try to understand their fellow student’s point of view, some repliers resorted to name calling and vague threats. Overall, the Olin population is mostly liberal, as are most colleges, and the insensitivity to other perspectives in exacerbated by the echo chamber that occurs with the small student population.  
This limited perspective not only makes it difficult for Olin students to work together, but is also limits their success in the world outside of Olin. A large part of existing in society is being able to understand others, and learning how to work with people that disagree with you. The Bubble prevents students from interacting with people of radically different backgrounds and philosophies, and when they do interact with one (as described above) it is confrontational, rather than attempting to find common ground. Part of Olin’s mission is to prepare students “to become exemplary engineering innovator who recognize needs, design solutions and engage in creative enterprises for the good of the world” (“Vision & Mission”). In order to design and engage for the good of the world, Olin engineers will need to interact and understand a variety of cultures, backgrounds, and opinions far different from their own, and the Bubble prevents them from being able to cultivate that skill.
